---
date: 2023-11-05T10:02:29-04:00
name:  H.R.1280 
title: "George Floyd Justice in Policing Act of 2021"
seo_title: " H.R.1280 George Floyd Justice in Policing Act of 2021 "
description: This bill addresses a wide range of policies and issues regarding policing practices and law enforcement accountability.
authors:
  - john shim
categories:
  - bills
role:
 - bill
image: bill8.jpeg
video:
url: 
weight: 0
layout: single
keywords:
- bills
---
The bill under discussion aims to address a wide range of issues and policies related to policing practices and law enforcement accountability. It aims to increase accountability for law enforcement misconduct and enhance transparency and data collection. The bill also aims to establish best practices and training requirements for law enforcement officers.

One of the key provisions of the bill is to enhance existing enforcement mechanisms to remedy violations by law enforcement. It lowers the criminal intent standard for a federal prosecution of law enforcement misconduct from "willful" to "knowing or reckless". Additionally, it limits qualified immunity as a defense in private civil actions against law enforcement officers and grants administrative subpoena power to the Department of Justice (DOJ) for pattern-or-practice investigations.

The bill also addresses the issue of racial profiling by law enforcement and sets up a framework to prevent and remedy such incidents. It limits the use of excessive force by law enforcement and restricts the use of certain policing practices such as no-knock warrants, chokeholds, and carotid holds.

To increase transparency and data collection, the bill creates a national registry called the National Police Misconduct Registry. This registry will compile data on complaints and records of police misconduct. The bill also establishes new reporting requirements on the use of force, officer misconduct, and routine policing practices.

Finally, the bill requires the DOJ to create uniform accreditation standards for law enforcement agencies and mandates that law enforcement officers complete training on racial profiling, implicit bias, and the duty to intervene in case of excessive force by another officer.

In conclusion, the bill aims to increase accountability and transparency in policing practices and law enforcement, and to prevent and remedy incidents of racial profiling and excessive use of force. It sets up a framework for best practices and training for law enforcement officers, and creates a national registry to compile data on police misconduct.

- Reference

[H.R.1280 ](https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-bill/1280/summary/53)
